I agree that I have had some trouble before in conducting exploratory data analysis mainly because I am not sure what I had to do. 
In the beginning, most of the EDA I learned was through different classes, and were done in more of a "question based" format. For example,
find the outliers for this dataset in like a homework. Now going through these articles, the first/second projects of this class, and 
taking another class called "Introduction to Exploratory Data Analysis" from the Data Science Academy, I have a good idea of what I should
be doing. 

My main strategy for EDA is first understanding my main research question for the particular problem I am trying to solve, then have subquestions
to do the EDA. The main thing that I like to check for is if there are any missing values in the data. Based on the context of the data and question,
I would figure out a way to deal with missing values such as removing or using an imputation technique for example. Next is checking for outliers
and then creating numerical summaries of important variables and distributions of categorical variables. The next thing would be creating plots, 
such as boxplots, scatterplots, and correlation plots, based on important variables. For example, for the statistical consulting project I am
working on, I am looking at how two different pesticides affect a pest called elm zigzag sawfly as they are damaging to elm trees.
Some of the EDA I did was creating plots to show population of sawfly decreasing over time and grouping them by pesticide applied to tree and
creating scatterplot of number of sawfly and percent of defoliation of tree to see if there was a correlation are examples. The methods I think
that are important is finding ways to deal with missing values if applicable, looking for outliers because that can affect results of a tests or
studies, and definitly visualizing different parts of data using plots. The things that I look for always are trends between important numerical
variables using scatterplots and correlation matrix, as well as using contingency tables to look at frequency of categorical groups.

